# loopback3-i18next

The project is generated by [LoopBack](http://loopback.io).

loopback3-i18next provides the following features:

* Auth
* i18next

## How to start

**Note** that this seed project requires node v4.x.x or higher and npm 2.14.7 but in order to be able to take advantage of the complete functionality we **strongly recommend node >=v6.5.0 and npm >=3.10.3.**

In order to start the seed use:

    $ git clone https://github.com/Uiseguys/loopback3-i18next.git
    $ cd loopback3-i18next
    # install the project's dependencies
    $ npm install
    # install strongloopback
    $ npm install -g strongloop
    # create basic tables
    $ npm run db autoupdate
    # insert seed data
    $ npm run db db-seed
    # start project
    $ npm start  

## Configuration

### database and mail configuration

copy **server/datasources.example.json** to **server/datasources.json**

    {
      "db": {
        "name": "db",
        "connector": "memory"
      },
      "mydb": {
        "name": "mydb",
        "connector": "postgresql",
        "host": "localhost",
        "port": 5432,
        "database": "i18next",
        "user": "postgres",
        "debug": true,
        "password": "root"
      },
      "myEmail": {
        "name": "myEmail",
        "connector": "mail",
        "transports": [
          {
            "type": "smtp",
            "host": "email.active24.com",
            "secure": false,
            "tls": {
              "rejectUnauthorized": false
            },
            "port": 587,
            "auth": {
              "user": "cesko@gastro-booking.com",
              "pass": "n6EEUd5xCJ"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }

### server ip and port

Edit **server/config.json**

    {
      "restApiRoot": "/api",
      "host": "127.0.0.1",
      "port": 3000,
      "remoting": {
        "context": false,
        "rest": {
          "handleErrors": false,
          "normalizeHttpPath": false,
          "xml": false
        },
        "json": {
          "strict": false,
          "limit": "100kb"
        },
        "urlencoded": {
          "extended": true,
          "limit": "100kb"
        },
        "cors": false
      }
    }

## How to update?

Edit models and run `$ npm run db autoupdate`

## How to use?

We suggest you to read [this article](https://www.i18next.com/) if you are not familiar with i18next.
We divide features like following:

1.  Create
    You should create a project to start.
2.  Edit
    Projects are composed of language and namespaces.
    Project has many languages.
    Each language has many namespaces.
    You can add or remove keys in only default language.
3.  Publish
    Once project is completed, you should publish project to make it online.
    The published url will be https://loopback3-i18next.herokuapp.com/api/Published/{projectId}/{{lng}}/{{ns}}
    You can find projectId from the url.

4.  Import namespaces
    This project provides with feature of importing JSON file into namespace
    The JSON file should look like following:

        {
          "application_title": "Einhorn",
          "intro": "Diese Applikation ist ein Einhorn",
          "parametrized_string": "I am parametrized sting with a value: {{value}} and a string: '{{str}}'",
          "email": "email",
          "_languages": {
            "de": "Deutsch",
            "en": "English"
          },
          "_buttons": {
            "send": "send"
          },
          "Compact View": "Compact View"
        }

    You can extract extract keys automatically using [i18next scanner](https://github.com/i18next/i18next-scanner)
    Here is how to use i18next scanner on Angular project

    * Make directive for i18next. Please reference [this](https://github.com/Uiseguys/ng-bs-redux-boilerplate/blob/develop/src/app/shared/i18n/i18next.directive.ts).
    * Use that directive in templates like following:

          <Trans i18nKey="[namespace]:[key]">[default value]</Trans>

      Example:


    	    <Trans i18nKey="common:Compact View">Compact View</Trans>
    	 Here common is namespace, and 'Compact View' is key.
    - run i18next scanner


    	    i18next-scanner --config i18next-scanner.config.js 'src/**/*.{html,ts}'
